Color palettes (#896)
Lundalogik/lime-elements: src/color-system.mdx

### Customizing our components and your apps with colors
When using web-components from Lime Elements, you will notice that there are many components which allow you to add colors. However, since Lime Elements is a design system intended to unify the look and feel of our products, we naturally try to reduce your styling choices. So this color customization will enable you to either add an accent color (e.g. your product color) to the component, or add colors that contribute the the functionality of the component (e.g. indicating a status such as error, danger, etc).

But when you do your own add-ons, integrations, and apps, keep in mind that the UI should be neutrally colored (using the contrast scales). Applying intensive colors to big areas of the UI (such as headers and background colors) is not recommended.

Colors should be used to communicate meaning, and attract attention to things that are functionally important, not to scream your brand throughout the entire product. Different sections of the app should be distinct, but also blend together well. Extensive color usage will be placing the emphasis on an app’s UI structure, instead of its content.

> Use only one accent color (product color) and use it for all Lime Elements components in your product. Define this accent colour by setting the CSS variable `--lime-primary-color`. We don't recommend using the Lime brand color CSS variables directly in this case, but instead suggest using their equivalent swatch form the color palette. This will ensure that your UI will automatically benefit from dark mode adjustments, while users do not notice the difference.

Reviewer: form --> from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use only one accent color (product color) and use it for all Lime Elements components in your product. Define this accent colour by setting the CSS variable `--lime-primary-color`. We don't recommend using the Lime brand color CSS variables directly in this case, but instead suggest using their equivalent swatch from the color palette. This will ensure that your UI will automatically benefit from dark mode adjustments, while users do not notice the difference.
```

Reviewer 2: ⚡

> Use only one accent color (product color) and use it for all Lime Elements components in your product. Define this accent colour by setting the CSS variable `--lime-primary-color`. We don't recommend using the Lime brand color CSS variables directly in this case, but instead suggest using their equivalent swatch from the color palette. This will ensure that your UI will automatically benefit from dark mode adjustments, while users do not notice the difference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use only one accent color (product color) and use it for all Lime Elements components in your product. Define this accent color by setting the CSS variable `--lime-primary-color`. We don't recommend using the Lime brand color CSS variables directly in this case, but instead suggest using their equivalent swatch from the color palette. This will ensure that your UI will automatically benefit from dark mode adjustments, while users do not notice the difference.
```

Reviewer 2: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/154725/91304766-51242000-e7aa-11ea-8218-e02367f0196b.png)

Yeah… I spell it "colour" (aka *correctly*) myself, but since we already use `color` everywhere in this document. Also, programming is done in American English (always, no exceptions), and while I'm happy to spell things differently in code and elsewhere, I don't expect anyone else to cope with such an existence 😂

In this palette, there is a `-default` and `-light` swatch available for each hue. The `-light` tints are usually good to use when creating interactive visual feedback. For example a button that has `--color-green-default` as background color, can get `--color-green-light` when it is hovered by the cursor.
___

#### **Primary palette**
Includes 40 color swatches (illustrated below) + 19 contrast swatches + 11 Lime Technologies brand colors.
<limel-example-primary-color-palette />

Sometimes, just a handful of colors is not enough and you need a bit more. For example when you need colors for your icons, or diagrams. This palette is designed to provide a decent number of harmonic colors while easing the choice of colors for you. Used for primary purposes and meaningful communications with colors.

Note that this palette also includes brand colors, and contrast swatches.
___

#### **Extended palette**
Includes 100 color swatches (illustrated below) + 19 contrast swatches + 11 Lime Technologies brand colors.

<limel-example-extended-color-palette />

This palette offers a much richer set of colors that can be used for visual communication, iconography, illustrations, and charts.
___

> ## Lime Technologies Brand Colors

Author: Lime Technologies Sweden AB, oh lord! You're right :D very beautiful and long name. :P and there are Norway, Denmark, Finland, Jävle and probably more :)

But since their common section of the name is "Lime Technologies", I suggest we may better keep using that. Lime alone may remind other companies. Like those Lime bikes and many other companies with Lime in their names. :/

When we internally say "Lime" it's so obvious what we're referring to. But externally, this will be certainly a confusion.

> ## Lime Technologies Brand Colors

Reviewer 2: Last thing I heard, we were instructed to say only "Lime" externally too. But that might have changed since the Lime scooters appeared I guess… could you ask someone at marketing about what we should use?

> ## Lime Technologies Brand Colors

Author: sure. I'll ask

> ## Lime Technologies Brand Colors

Author: Never got an answer on this. So let's be in the safe side and write the full name for now.

---
name: Color system
route: /color-system
menu: Design Guidelines
---

# Color system

> By taking advantage of CSS variables, we have created a color harmonic and pleasing color system that aims to ease the job of picking the right colors for components. These colors are inspired by [Material Design's 2014 color palettes](https://material.io/design/color/the-color-system.html#tools-for-picking-colors). However, we have modified them, renamed them, added new swatches, and also divided them into different subsets of colors which automatically adjust to Dark and Light themes.

Author: good catch. Yes the first "color" is a typo. :) should be "we have created a harmonic and pleasing color system"

> By taking advantage of CSS variables, we have created a color harmonic and pleasing color system that aims to ease the job of picking the right colors for components. These colors are inspired by [Material Design's 2014 color palettes](https://material.io/design/color/the-color-system.html#tools-for-picking-colors). However, we have modified them, renamed them, added new swatches, and also divided them into different subsets of colors which automatically adjust to Dark and Light themes.

Author: yes, I think that's a good way of explaining it :) 
Swatch is a sample https://www.yourdictionary.com/swatch 
In design programs such as [Affinity](https://affinity.help/designer/en-US.lproj/index.html?page=pages/Panels/swatchesPanel.html?title=Swatches%20panel), or [Photoshop](https://helpx.adobe.com/photoshop/using/customizing-color-pickers-swatches.html) this term is used as a stablished concept as well.

> By taking advantage of CSS variables, we have created a color harmonic and pleasing color system that aims to ease the job of picking the right colors for components. These colors are inspired by [Material Design's 2014 color palettes](https://material.io/design/color/the-color-system.html#tools-for-picking-colors). However, we have modified them, renamed them, added new swatches, and also divided them into different subsets of colors which automatically adjust to Dark and Light themes.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, that definition aligns with my understanding of the word. "little square colour example" == "sample". And yes, I got that understanding of the word from using Photoshop 😊

I think "swatch" close enough and don't think I can come up with any better alternative 👍

### Color swatch names
<limel-example-extended-color-palette />

The color system consists of 20 base colors or "hues". Each hue has five variations: one default, two tints (light and lighter), and two shades (dark and darker); and this is simply how we have named their CSS variables. The `red` color for instance has the following variable names:

`--color-red-lighter` >  `--color-red-light` >  `--color-red-default` >  `--color-red-dark` >  `--color-red-darker`

### Contrast swatch names
<limel-example-contrast-color-palette />

The contrast swatches are used to clarify the generic and neutral UI elements such as backgrounds, containers, sections, and their textual content. Using them wisely will help create a sense of hierarchy as well as improved readability. CSS variable names for contrast swatches start with a prefix of `--contrast-` followed by a number. These numbers start at `100` and incrementally increase by 100 and stop at `1700`, such as:

`--contrast-100` > `--contrast-200` > ··· > `--contrast-1600` > `--contrast-1700`

> **Note** that you should never use these swatches to color something, because these swatches will dramatically change their colors and get inverted in dark and light modes.

Author: Good point. I'll elaborate more.

> **Note** that `--color-white` and `--color-black`, which are displayed beside the contrast swatches do not change in dark and light modes. These variables are perfect when used for example in shadows (which remain black even in dark mode) or text colors on colored buttons.

Author: will change 👌

> **Note** that `--color-white` and `--color-black`, which are displayed beside the contrast swatches do not change in dark and light modes. These variables are perfect when used for example in shadows (which remain black even in dark mode) or text colors on colored buttons.

Reviewer 2: I :zap:'ed the "perfect" from that sentence…

### Dark mode, light mode, usability

> **Note:** don't confuse titles like "dark mode" and "light mode" or "dark/light themes" with these swatches' naming convention. As mentioned above, each swatch -despite its name- already comes with two tones inbuilt into the color system. For example the `--color-red-dark` variable will automatically be displayed as `#d32f2f;` in light mode, and as `#c62828` in dark mode.

Author: You are right. Maybe using "dark mode" is enough. 
And just feel free to update the text. You are a pedagogic dude, and I'm sure your suggestion will be great. We can (and will) also always improve the docs in future. ;)

> **Note:** don't confuse titles like "dark mode" and "light mode" or "dark/light themes" with these swatches' naming convention. As mentioned above, each swatch -despite its name- already comes with two tones inbuilt into the color system. For example the `--color-red-dark` variable will automatically be displayed as `#d32f2f;` in light mode, and as `#c62828` in dark mode.

Reviewer 2: Ergh… can't be arsed… not right now. I want to get it up for review so someone who hasn't been involved through the whole process gets to read it. If they complain, I'll take the time 😄

<limel-example-dark-light-mode />

> The reduced brightness in the dark mode is set with usability in mind, and will help reduce users' eye strain in low-light environments. In a proper design for dark mode, it is not enough to invert the background and text colors. Colors which are bright in light mode, will appear even brighter in dark mode and therefore pop out more from the UI, which can create visual nuisance.

Author: 👌 all Persian speaking brains have problems with usage of "the" in English. (or is it [with **the** usage of "the" in English]?   😄

> The reduced brightness in the dark mode is set with usability in mind, and will help reduce users' eye strain in low-light environments. In a proper design for dark mode, it is not enough to invert the background and text colors. Colors which are bright in light mode, will appear even brighter in dark mode and therefore pop out more from the UI, which can create visual nuisance.

Author: me like ;)

## Usage
### Using CSS variables
We have not used HEX values to create the CSS variables for each color. They are instead written in RGB digits, without parentheses. For example `--color-blue-default: 33, 150, 243;` (which would be `#2196f3` in HEX). The reason for such a choice is empowering you to write the colors with alpha channel if needed.

> Thus to get a solid blue color, you would write this: `color: rgb(var(--color-blue-default));`,
> or like this to get a blue color with 10% opacity: `color: rgba(var(--color-blue-default), 0.1);`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thus, to get a solid blue color, you would write `color: rgb(var(--color-blue-default));`.  
To get a blue color with 10% opacity, write `color: rgba(var(--color-blue-default), 0.1);` instead.
```

(Note that there are two spaces at the end of the first line, to preserve the line-break.)

> To get a blue color with 10% opacity, write `color: rgba(var(--color-blue-default), 0.1);` instead.

Author: that's strange. Because I just accepted your suggestion using GitHub's UI. :/ I certainly have no hard feelings about the two spaces.

> To get a blue color with 10% opacity, write `color: rgba(var(--color-blue-default), 0.1);` instead.

Reviewer 2: GitHub apparently stripped them then. Which would make sense in most cases, just not in markdown 🙂

### Available palettes

> In your web-components, you only need to import one of the palettes. Importing a palette makes all included CSS variables available in that web-component. It all depends on how many colors you need for that specific component. If you need more colors than what is offered in the UI palette, then simply remove that and import one of the other palettes that suits.

Reviewer 2: > It all depends on how many colors you need

Suggestion:
"Which one you should import depends on how many colors you need"

> In your web-components, you only need to import one of the palettes. Importing a palette makes all included CSS variables available in that web-component. It all depends on how many colors you need for that specific component. If you need more colors than what is offered in the UI palette, then simply remove that and import one of the other palettes that suits.

Reviewer 2: > then simply remove that and import one of the other palettes that suits.

"that suits" doesn't sound right in English. Suggestions:

"then simply remove that and import one of the other palettes."
"then simply remove that and import one of the other palettes instead."
"then simply remove that and import a palette that suits your component better."

Each palette also includes Lime Technologies brand colors. So no matter which one you import, you will always have access to our brand colors and can use them by their specific CSS variable names.

#### **UI palette** (default)

> Includes 10 colors swatches (illustrated below) + 19 contras swatches + 11 Lime Technologies' brand colors.

Author: ;) tnx

> Includes 10 colors swatches (illustrated below) + 19 contrast swatches + 11 Lime Technologies' brand colors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Includes 10 color swatches (illustrated below) + 19 contrast swatches + 11 Lime Technologies brand colors.
```

The reason the apostrophe should be removed here, but not on line 52 for example, is some grammatical thing I don't have words for, just a feeling 😄

Extensive explanation below, skip if you already know or don't care! (I only want to lecture willing subjects 😆)

Compare if we substitute "Volvo" for "Lime Technologies":

> Each palette also includes Lime Technologies' brand colors.
> Each palette also includes Volvo's brand colors.

(implies *all* brand colours are included, so, correct in this case, keep the apostrophe!)

> Each palette also includes Lime Technologies brand colors.
> Each palette also includes Volvo brand colors.  

(I'd say this isn't grammatically incorrect, but it implies only *some* brand colours are includes)

> Includes 10 color swatches (illustrated below) + 19 contrast swatches + 11 Lime Technologies' brand colors.
> Includes 10 color swatches (illustrated below) + 19 contrast swatches + 11 Volvo's brand colors.

(this clearly doesn't sound right, unless we add an "of": *"+ 11 of Volvo's brand colors"*, but that's just unnecessary and clunky)

> Includes 10 color swatches (illustrated below) + 19 contrast swatches + 11 Lime Technologies brand colors.
> Includes 10 color swatches (illustrated below) + 19 contrast swatches + 11 Volvo brand colors.

🎶 😊

Author: Hmm.... isn't it like you can have apostrophe for persons, but not objects?

Like:
Kia's brand colors. vs. Volvo brand colors. (Kia stands for Kiarokh not Kia Cars 😜 )

I trust you are right. ;)

> Each palette also includes Lime Technologies' brand colors. So no matter which one you import, you will always have access to our brand colors and can use them by their specific CSS variable names.

Author: 👌
maybe we should also mention something along these lines:
If you are developing add-ons or plugins for Lime CRM, or add new components to Lime Elements itself, the entire extended palette is already available through xxxx and thus there is no need to import anything. 

Something like this

> Each palette also includes Lime Technologies' brand colors. So no matter which one you import, you will always have access to our brand colors and can use them by their specific CSS variable names.

Author: perhaps also explain how they import, if they need to; and what's the path to the `.scss` files

> Each palette also includes Lime Technologies' brand colors. So no matter which one you import, you will always have access to our brand colors and can use them by their specific CSS variable names.

Author: Now with the last changes, the only thing that is left is to explain that dark mode is optional. Also explain how they can opt-in to test or make it available in their product, or opt-out (if their product is not ready for it yet).

> Each palette also includes Lime Technologies' brand colors. So no matter which one you import, you will always have access to our brand colors and can use them by their specific CSS variable names.

Reviewer 2: Ah, yeah, good point! I'll look at adding something about that while I'm disabling the dark-mode.

> Each palette also includes Lime Technologies' brand colors. So no matter which one you import, you will always have access to our brand colors and can use them by their specific CSS variable names.

Reviewer 2: > Now with the last changes, the only thing that is left is to explain that dark mode is optional. Also explain how they can opt-in to test or make it available in their product, or opt-out (if their product is not ready for it yet).

⚡ See the first (only at the moment) fixup-commit for my added note about this.

<limel-example-ui-color-palette />

In most cases, importing the UI palette is enough and gives you colors which you normally need in a user interface. This palette includes a few hand picked swatches that add an extra layer of meaning to different elements. Using these, an element in the UI can quickly communicate to the user what it does or indicates.

> As you notice, for each hue there is a `-default` and `-light` swatch available in this palette. The `-light` tints are usually good to use when creating interactive visual feedback. For example a button that has `--color-green-default` as background color, can get `--color-green-light` when it is hovered by the cursor.

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest this structure for the first sentence:

```suggestion
In this palette, there is a `-default` and `-light` swatch available for each hue. The `-light` tints are usually good to use when creating interactive visual feedback. For example a button that has `--color-green-default` as background color, can get `--color-green-light` when it is hovered by the cursor.
```

I'd also suggest either *"there is a `-default` and a `-light` swatch available"*, or *"there are `-default` and `-light` swatches available"*:

```suggestion
In this palette, there is a `-default` and a `-light` swatch available for each hue. The `-light` tints are usually good to use when creating interactive visual feedback. For example a button that has `--color-green-default` as background color, can get `--color-green-light` when it is hovered by the cursor.
```

```suggestion
In this palette, there are `-default` and `-light` swatches available for each hue. The `-light` tints are usually good to use when creating interactive visual feedback. For example a button that has `--color-green-default` as background color, can get `--color-green-light` when it is hovered by the cursor.
```

___

#### **Primary palette**

> Includes 40 colors swatches (illustrated below) + 19 contras swatches + 11 Lime Technologies' brand colors.

Author: ;) tnx

> Includes 40 colors swatches (illustrated below) + 19 contrast swatches + 11 Lime Technologies' brand colors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Includes 40 color swatches (illustrated below) + 19 contrast swatches + 11 Lime Technologies brand colors.
```

<limel-example-primary-color-palette />

Sometimes, just a handful of colors is not enough and you need a bit more. For example when you need colors for your icons, or diagrams. This palette is designed to provide a decent number of harmonic colors while easing the choice of colors for you. Used for primary purposes and meaningful communications with colors.

Note that this palette also includes brand colors, and contrast swatches.
___

#### **Extended palette**

> Includes 100 colors swatches (illustrated below) + 19 contrast swatches + 11 Lime Technologies' brand colors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Includes 100 color swatches (illustrated below) + 19 contrast swatches + 11 Lime Technologies brand colors.
```

<limel-example-extended-color-palette />

> This palette offers a much richer set of colors that can be used for visual communications, iconography, illustrations, and charts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This palette offers a much richer set of colors that can be used for visual communication, iconography, illustrations, and charts.
```

I'm not entirely sure if "visual communication" or "visual communications" is better here. I don't think either is technically *wrong*, but they mean slightly different things. "Visual communications" (with the plural *s*) means "instances of visual communication". Go with whichever you prefer 👍

___

> ## Lime Technologies' Brand Colors

Reviewer 2: This works both with and without apostrophe.

I'd say it maybe sounds a bit more like a heading without the apostrophe. Again, compare with "Volvo":

## Volvo's Brand Colors

vs

## Volvo Brand Colors

Author: I guess it's correct without as you earlier said. It's something like "Apple Products". (seems nobody says Apple's products) 
But don't they say Apple's CEO? 🙈 
I have no clue.

Author: Is it Apple employees or Apple's employees then?

> ## Lime Technologies' Brand Colors

Reviewer 2: Separate consideration: Should we use just "Lime" instead of "Lime Technologies"?

I noticed on line 91 we just say "Lime's brand assets" and that just sound a lot better than "Lime Technologies' brand assets"…

Author: That's a question for the people who set the brand guidelines actually. :)  I don't know. I think to be correct legally, we should say the full name!? Is "Lime" itself a trademark of Lime Technologies AB?

Also for outsiders who have no clue about the people behind lime elements, mentioning the full name may be better.

<limel-example-brand-color-palette />

> These set of colors are included in all available palettes, and can be used for branding and marketing purposes. Swatches and their respective CSS variables have specific names starting with the prefix of `--lime-brand-color-`. All of these hues already exists in our color palette and mostly reside in the "dark mode" subset -as stated beside their names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This set of colors is included in all available palettes, and can be used for branding and marketing purposes. Swatches and their respective CSS variables have specific names starting with the prefix `--lime-brand-color-`. All of these hues already exist in our color palette and mostly reside in the "dark mode" subset -as stated beside their names.
```

> These set of colors are included in all available palettes, and can be used for branding and marketing purposes. Swatches and their respective CSS variables have specific names starting with the prefix of `--lime-brand-color-`. All of these hues already exists in our color palette and mostly reside in the "dark mode" subset -as stated beside their names.

Reviewer 2: > All of these hues already exist in our color palette and mostly reside in the "dark mode" subset -as stated beside their names.

I'm pretty confident I understand what you mean, but I'm worried this will confuse more people than it will enlight…

I think it might be better to remove this sentence from here, and add something about it on line 88 where dark mode support is mentioned. (See comment on that line.)

Author: sounds good

> **Note** that names of our brand colors are chosen by our Marketing department thus sometimes do not exactly match our naming conventions for their equivalent hues in the color pallets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note** that names of our brand colors are chosen by our Marketing department thus sometimes do not exactly match our naming conventions for their equivalent hues in the color palettes.
```

> **Note** that the brand colors do **not** have a dark and light version, and when their respective CSS variable names are used, they will be displayed with the same brightness in both light and dark UIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note** that the brand colors do **not** have a dark and light version, and when their respective CSS variable names are used, they will be displayed with the same brightness in both light and dark UIs.
```

I'd add something here about many of the brand colours also appearing in the colour palette, and explain the difference and when to use which.

Also, if you go along with my suggestion to remove the mention of brand vs palette from line 84 and add an explanation here instead, then we should also move the note on line 86 so it appears *after* this note, otherwise it won't make any sense to the reader until they get here 🙂

Author: I don't see your changes here? :/

### Usage of brand colors
For correct use of Lime's brand assets, including colors, please refer to [Lime Technologies' brand guidelines](https://www.lime-technologies.se/brand-guidelines/).

> We recommend you to rely on the "UI palette" and avoid using brand colors extensively in UI design. Brand colors -as their name states- should be used where appropriate, to reflect the company's brand & identity; and add brand-recognizability to the product. These should be used like the way you use spices in cooking. Too much and too many of them together will destroy the food. Therefore in UI design, usage of brand colors should be very limited.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend relying on the "UI palette" and avoid using brand colors extensively in UI design. Brand colors -as their name states- should be used where appropriate, to reflect the company's brand and identity; and add brand-recognizability to the product. These should be used the way you use spices in cooking. Too much and too many of them together will destroy the food. Therefore, in UI design, usage of brand colors should be very limited.
```

> We recommend you to rely on the "UI palette" and avoid using brand colors extensively in UI design. Brand colors -as their name states- should be used where appropriate, to reflect the company's brand & identity; and add brand-recognizability to the product. These should be used like the way you use spices in cooking. Too much and too many of them together will destroy the food. Therefore in UI design, usage of brand colors should be very limited.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps all discussion of brand colors vs palette colors and their difference with respect to dark-mode should be moved here instead?

**Note** that `--color-white` and `--color-black`, which are displayed beside the contrast swatches do not change in dark and light modes. These variables can be used, for example, in shadows (which remain black even in dark mode) or text colors on colored buttons.

> ### Dark mode, light mode, accessibility

Reviewer 2: 👍

I like this change. It has more gravitas.

### Using CSS variables
We have not used HEX values to create the CSS variables for each color. They are instead written in RGB digits, without parentheses. For example `--color-blue-default: 33, 150, 243;` (which would be `#2196f3` in HEX). The reason for such a choice is empowering you to write the colors with alpha channel if needed.

> Thus, to get a solid blue color, you would write `color: rgb(var(--color-blue-default));`.

Reviewer 2: I'm guessing these spaces were removed automatically? If you have your editor set to automatically remove trailing whitespace, you should disable that, and instead make sure you have the editorconfig plugin installed, as the built-in setting doesn't know to make an exception for Markdown, while our editorconfig settings do.

Reviewer 2: (I'll fix the spaces though, so you don't have to commit any fixup 🙂)

Use only one accent color (product color) and make sure that it consistently affects all components you use from lime elements in your product. This value is called `--lime-primary-color`. We don't recommend using the brand color css variables directly in this case, but instead suggest using their equivalent swatch form the color palette. This will ensure that your UI will automatically benefit from dark mode adjustments, while users do not notice the difference.

Things that can be affected by the accent color:
* In buttons: background color of primary buttons
* In check boxes: background color of “checked” boxed
* In radio buttons: background color of “checked” buttons
* In inputs: the underline visual effect
* In linear progress: color of the progressed section and what’s left (its background)
* In many components: the visual styles that indicate the `focused` state (using keyboard)
* In many components: the visual styles that indicate the `active` or `selected` state
* etc...

What colors can you optionally change to communicate meaning
* In buttons: text color, and also background color of buttons with certain functionalities (delete, restore, etc..)

> * In badges: color of the page and its test color

Reviewer 2: Is this supposed to say "and it's text color"? Otherwise I don't understand what this means 😄

Author: :D WTF, yes... its text color

Reviewer 2: :zap:
